Constructor Dependency Injection, with PicoContainer
Inverison of Control
By the PicoContainer Committers and friends, (c) the PicoContainer committers. Draft edition of %%date(%c)

= Inversion of Control =

Inversion of Control is about the management of components in an application.  It refers to the fact that in a haorball design of an
application components control their own destiny too much. This means they do too much configuration and dependency resolution. They
also potentially start threads for themselves or launch into daemon life at moment convenient to the developer of the component in
question.  The feeling is that this is way too chaotic for an application comprised of many components.  Inverting the control back
to a container is felt to be the best way out of this mess by the proponents of IoC.

Thus, the need for a container becomes apparent. In its purest sense, this could be any class, custom or general that manages the
loading and starting of the components of an application.  It is not dissimilar in concept to a bootstrap. The bootstrap, however,
could be a static main method whereas the container hints at some design, single purpose and possibility for reuse.

== Not A Pattern In itself ==

Design Patterns are ususally names after the term that alludes to a solution.  e.g. Singleton very crudely hints at the fact that
there is a single instance of an class exists for an application. The problem that Singleton solved was a situation where it was too
hard for various parts of an application to access a common resource. The hardness manifests itself as some probably heavy resource
being done more than once during the lifetime of an application, when it only needed to be done one (and stored).

Factory and Proxy as similarly named as solutions to problems.

Inversion of Control, as a term, is more of a maxim (some would say cause or cult) than a design pattern. It is a collection of
design elements that ensure (to the cult member) that control is inverted.

== In the beginning ==

Inversion of Control, as a term, was coined in 1998 by Stefano Mazzocchi as conseqnece of trying to engineer a "Java Server
Framework" for the growing set of server side Java components and tools.  Sun were just starting to protect the word Java when used
for branding/naming of software and computing functions, so Apache had to look for alternative names. Avalon was chosen as a project
name (queue images of Arthurian legend).

To the Avalon team, it was clear that components receiving various aspects of assembly and configuration was far superior to those
components going at getting these aspects themseves.

In itself, Inversion of Control as a concept was not entirely new.  Parts of it been talked about before as Dependency Inversion
Principle and the "Hollywood Pattern" (don't call us, we'll call you).

It is also important to point out that The Open Services Gateway initiative was also invented around the same time.

Here is the simplest, two dependency, Avalon-style component:

{snippet:id=class|url=@BOOK_MODULE_URL@/java/cdibook/ioc/Type1Component.java|lineNumbers=false}

And here is an example of the manifest that may accompany it:

{snippet:id=xml|url=@BOOK_MODULE_URL@/java/cdibook/ioc/Type1Component.xml|lineNumbers=false}

Latterly this type of IoC has been given a new name. Contextulaized Dependency Lookup is that name.

== Type 2 IoC ==

Joe Walnes, Mike Cannon Brookes and others found themselves writing XWork and WebWork2 to support their forthcoming book, "Java Open
Source Programming". Joe pointed out that the concepts were very much like those from IoC/Avlaon that Paul had been trying to
convince Joe to adopt for a couple of years, but that dependencies were passed into the component via setters. The need for those
dependencies was declared in some accompanying XML.

Paul who worked with Joe at an Energy Trading Company in London, suggested this was "type 2" Inversion of Control. Avalon's design
(and similar) being type 1.

Here is the simplest, two dependency, SDI component:

{snippet:id=class|url=@BOOK_MODULE_URL@/java/cdibook/ioc/SDIComponent.java|lineNumbers=false}

The manifest that would accompamy an SDI component would look the same as that for Avalon-style ones.:

{snippet:id=xml|url=@BOOK_MODULE_URL@/java/cdibook/ioc/SDIComponent.xml|lineNumbers=false}

Martin Fowler has suggested that it may be better to have such depenendency resolving methods prefixed with init rather than setter.
With init or set prefixes to dependency recieving methods, a container could automatically assemble SDI components without the
manifest. SDI, under container control, works best with the manifest though.  Without a container, SDI Components are very much like
simple Java beans to use:

{snippet:id=block|url=@BOOK_MODULE_URL@/java/cdibook/ioc/SDINoContainer.java|lineNumbers=false}

A downside of direct bean user of an SDI component is that it is possible to instantiate a component without setting all the
dependencies.  As mistakes, these should be quite quick to catch post-compile with a simple test of that application.  Months later
though, when a jar of components is replaced in an application with a leter version of the same, a new dependency may be missed, and
a non-functioning application may be shipped to live. Again, that could be caught with diligent testing.

== Type 3 IoC ==

Rachel Davies, as one of the entusiastic reviewers of Joe's book, left a margin note for the paragraphs that disussed the elegence
of type 2. The Margin note simply suggested that resolving dependencies by contructor was more elegent. Lattery we are inclined to
agree. Paul suggested that this was type 3. At that moment in time (the summer of 2002) there were no implementation of the type 3
idea, so it seemed logical for the pair to kick off the project. That project was PicoContainer, and type 3 was later known as
Constructor Dependency Injection (CDI)

A CDI component, in its simplest form for two dependencies looks like:

{snippet:id=class|url=@BOOK_MODULE_URL@/java/cdibook/ioc/CDIComponent.java|lineNumbers=false}

As with SDI Components, CDI ones are very simple to use:

{snippet:id=block|url=@BOOK_MODULE_URL@/java/cdibook/ioc/CDINoContainer.java|lineNumbers=false}

The added advantage is that CDI Components cannot be instantiated with missing dependencies. Thus the compiler or IDE will catch
mismatches between any contstructor and the parameters passed into the class on instantiation.

TODO - ATG Dynamo similarities ...

== December 2003 Meeting ==

Rod Johnson of the Spring Framework team, Paul Hammant (former Avaloner, and co-lead of PicoContainer), Mike Royle, with Martin
Fowler (by email) say down and played with some of the language of Martin's forthcoming article. Martin had drafted this article
entirely independantly of this team but had be kind enough to show a draft to them.  The problem the team had was with the naming of
the patterns related to Inversion of Control, and the examples of use that Martin had shown. ... MORE

== Characterized ==

The loading of an IoC component is fairly simple. It is instantiated, initialised, has its component dependencies resolved, is
configured and may be started if it has some form of daemon life. ... MORE

=== Component Instantiation ===

Component Instantiation is

=== Initialisation ===
=== Dependency Resolution ===
=== Configuration ===
=== Lifecycle ===













