Constructor Dependency Injection - Copyright
by PicoContainer Committers and friends, (c) PicoContainer Committers
%%date(%c)

= Copyright and participating in the book =

== Copyright ==

This book is copyrighted to the committers of the PicoContainer project. The PicoContainer project is lead by Paul Hammant and Aslak
Hellesoy, but this book is the art of the committers without explicit leadership.

== Contributing ==

Contributors to this book understand that they are granting copyright to the PicoContainer committers. They understand that as well
as retaining a copyright on portions of the book that they have authored, they are donating a right to the committers to take the
content of the book and publish it. They understand that once they have consented to the donation of copyright and assured the
committers that they have a legal right to donate copyright (sometimes retained by employers), they should email changes in to
dev@picocontainer.codehaus.org. The subject of the email should be preceded by "[book] ". At any stage, a contributor may
discontinue their ongoing contributions by ending their emails to the mail-list with the "[Book] " prefix.

The content donators can expect to be credited in an early section of the book. If it is possible the ordering of contributors is
likely indicate the size of the contribution. This size is to be determined by some crude mechanism that measures the byte size of
diffs.  The PicoContainer committers are likely to be listed before those of non-committers.

== Profits ==

Only luminaries make money from publishing books these days. The profits from "Constructor Dependency Injection" are not expected to
be high. The committers will share the profits amongst themselves (probably proportioned in terms of size of contribution). At their
discretion, non-committers who have made sizable contributions may be invited to profit share. It is our intention to donate 10% of
the profits to Codehaus, the Open Source portal that fosters our development.


