Constructor Dependency Injection - Copyright
with PicoContainer
By the PicoContainer Committers and friends, (c) the PicoContainer committers. Edition of %%date(%c)

= Copyright and participating in the book =

==PicoContainer Committers writing this book==

For the purposes of this document, the list of individuals below are the subset of PicoContainer committers who are active in
writing this book...

Paul Hammant (co-lead of PicoContainer)
Aslak Hellesoy (co-lead of PicoContainer)
(add yourselves guys)

They are henceforth known as the CDI-Book-Owners. The order of committers above implies no leadership for creation of the book, the
team is co-owning.

== Copyright ==

This book is copyrighted to the CDI-Book-Owners.

== Contributing ==

Contributors to this book understand that they are granting copyright to the CDI-Book-Owners. They understand that as well
as retaining a copyright on portions of the book that they have authored, they are donating a right to the CDI-Book-Owners to take
the content of the book and publish it. They understand that once they have consented to the donation of copyright and assured the
CDI-Book-Owners that they have a legal right to donate copyright (sometimes retained by employers), they should email changes in to
dev@picocontainer.codehaus.org. The subject of the email should be preceded by "[book] ". At any stage, a contributor may
discontinue their ongoing contributions by ending their emails to the mail-list with the "[Book] " prefix.

The content donators can expect to be credited in an early section of the book. If it is possible the ordering of contributors is
likely indicate the size of the contribution. This size is to be determined by some crude mechanism that measures the byte size of
diffs.  The CDI-Book-Owners are likely to be listed before those of other contributors.

== Profits ==

Only luminaries make money from publishing books these days. The profits from "Constructor Dependency Injection" are not expected to
be high. The CDI-Book-Owners will share the profits amongst themselves (probably proportioned in terms of size of contribution). At
their discretion, contributors other than the CDI-Book-Owners who have made sizable contributions may be invited to profit share. It
is our intention to donate 10% of the profits to Codehaus, the Open Source portal that fosters our development.

== Right To publish ==

No individual or organisation other than the CDI-Book-Owners may publish the book. Publication may be bound or unbound.
Printed or electronic. The CDI-Book-Owners may make available a copy of the book at www.picocontainer.org/cdibook.html, and
individuals may view it there. No individual may distribute that in any form other than the committers collectively. Individuals may
link to it, but not copy it, transform it, or publish it.







